AND I'M GOING TO I KNOW
AT THE PRESENT TIME WE DON'T
HAVE A QUORUM BUT THE WEATHER
HAS KEPT SOME OF US RUNNING
LATE BUT WE'RE GOING TO GO
AHEAD AND CALL THE ROLL PLEASE.
>> MR. CUMMINGS
.
ALL RIGHT.
JOE CARTER HERE BY SHEER OFMAN
HERE.
COMMISSIONER MILGROM HERE,
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
COMMISSIONER GREENE.
COMMISSIONER HAYNES.
COMMISSIONER LEW.
PRESIDENT COMMISSIONER COOPER
HERE, COMMISSIONER MAINLY
COUNCIL MEMBER COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON LET'S ROLL.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE ARE SHY OF A QUORUM SO WE
WILL NOT VOTE AT THIS TIME ON
APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA OR THE
MINUTES FROM OUR LAST MEETING
AND HOPEFULLY WILL BE ABLE TO
DO THAT BEFORE THE MEETING IS
OVER.
DO WE HAVE ANY PUBLIC COMMENT?
IS THERE ANYONE AT THIS TIME
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A PUBLIC
COMMENT?
WE ALSO HAVE NO ONE ON LINE AT
THIS TIME FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> THANK YOU SO IN TERMS OF THE
CHAIR REPORT, I WANTED TO SAY I
THOUGHT LAST LAST SEPTEMBER'S
MEETING WENT VERY WELL.
I THOUGHT THE INFORMATION WAS
WELL RECEIVED.
WE CERTAINLY APPRECIATE THE
CHIEF AND COUNCIL PERSON
HARRISON AND AND THE PRESIDENT
OF THE NAACP ALSO SPEAKING.
I THOUGHT EVERYTHING WAS WELL
RECEIVED SO THIS IS SORT OF OUR
FIRST GOOD MEETING FOR OUR
PROGRAM HERE AND I WANT TO DO A
COUPLE OF THINGS.
BUT EVEN BEFORE I LEAVE LAST
LAST TIME'S MEETING IN TODAY'S
ANN ARBOR NEWS THEY REPORTED
THAT FOR THE SECOND MONTH IN A
ROW THE NUMBER OF STOPS FOR
EQUIPMENT VIOLATIONS INANNA HAD
DROPPED TO ZERO.
SO OUT OF FIVE HUNDRED AND THEY
REPORTED FIVE HUNDRED AND NINE
STOPS IN SEPTEMBER AND NONE
OF THOSE WERE FOR EQUIPMENT
VIOLATIONS.
SO I THINK THAT'S THAT'S WHAT
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR.
WHAT I HAD PLANNED TO DO AND
MAYBE I'LL PUT THAT OFF UNTIL
NOVEMBER AND PARTICULARLY
BECAUSE WE HAVE A NEW
COMMISSIONER COMING ON.
I WOULD LIKE THE COMMUNITY TO
KNOW WHO OUR COMMISSIONERS ARE
AND SO WE'LL PUT THAT OFF TILL
NEXT TIME SO EVERYBODY CAN COME
IN WITH YOU WITH YOUR BEST
DESCRIPTION OF WHO YOU ARE,
WHAT TO DO AND I THINK THAT'LL
BE HELPFUL FOR THE COMMUNITY TO
KNOW WHO SITS ON THIS
COMMISSION.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE'LL MOVE THAT TO THE NEXT
TO THE NEXT MEETING.
>> CAN I ASK A QUICK YOU KNOW,
COMMISSIONER FRANCES WAS
WORKING ON SOMETHING FOR THE
WEBSITE BUT OBVIOUSLY SHE DID
SHE DID SHE GET STARTED?
I HAD SENT HER HEADSHOT AND A
DESCRIPTION BUT I'VE NEVER
REALLY HEARD BACK FROM HER AND
SHE ASKED FOR EVERYBODY'S YEAH.
YEAH.
SO I'M LOOKING AT THIS COMMENT
THAT I THOUGHT SHE WOULD KNOW
IS THERE SOMETHING I DON'T LIKE
YET OR ANYTHING LIKE THAT?
>> OK, SO I HAVEN'T RECEIVED
ANY HEADSHOTS OR DESCRIPTIONS
BUT IF YOU ALL STILL HAVE THEM
YOU CAN SEND THEM TO ME.
I HAVE ACCESS TO OUR SOCIAL
MEDIA PAGES SO I CAN PUT THEM
UP THERE BUT THAT WAS KIND
OF THE LAST THING TO BE ON
SOCIAL MEDIA NOT ON THE WEB
SITE.
>> ON THE CITY WEBSITE, NO.
IT'LL BE ON THE COMMISSION'S
INSTAGRAM AND TWITTER.
OH OK.
DO WE WE DO HAVE WE DON'T HAVE
A SEPARATE WEBSITE FROM THE
CITY'S WEBSITE.
YOU HAVE THE COMMISSION'S YOU
GUYS HAVE A CITY COMMISSION WEB
PAGE RIGHT NOW.
OK, IS THAT WHERE YOU GUYS
WOULD LIKE TO PUT THE PHOTO?
WELL I DON'T KNOW IF WE COULD
DO BOTH POTENTIALLY BUT I JUST
DON'T KNOW.
I GUESS MY EXPECTATION WAS THAT
IT WAS GOING TO GO ON OUR
WEBSITE THE CITY YOU KNOW, OUR
SUB SITE FOR THE CITY BUT YEAH.
>> SO THAT'S UP TO YOU.
IF YOU GUYS WANT HIM ON THE WEB
PAGE THAT CAN HAPPEN IF YOU
GUYS WANT THEM SOCIAL MEDIA
PLATFORMS THAT ALSO CAN HELP.
>> WELL, I AM DEFINITELY NOT
THE ONE SHOULD DO ANYTHING
ABOUT THE WEB PAGE OR SOCIAL
MEDIA, NOT ON SOCIAL MEDIA,
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
SO IF THERE'S SOMEBODY WHO
WANTS TO PICK UP THAT THAT TASK
THAT COMMISSIONER FORMER
COMMISSIONER FRANCIS WAS
WORKING ON, THAT WOULD BE
GREAT.
I DON'T KNOW WHO HAS THE
EXPERTIZE TO DO THAT PRETTY
PERSONALLY.
WE HAVE THE COMMITTEE OF REALLY
BEING ON IT BUT NOT ONE OK,
MAYBE WE HAVE TO TAP INTO SOME
OTHER TALENT SOMEWHERE THE I
DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
WHAT TO TELL YOU.
>> RANDY, SINCE YOU BROUGHT IT
UP, YOU DON'T THAT'S THAT'S NOT
THAT'S NOT IN YOUR WHEELHOUSE.
IT REALLY ISN'T NOBODY MAYBE I
DON'T KNOW WE ALREADY HAVE A
NEW COMMISSIONER COMING OUT
OF THE TOP THERE WE HAVE
APPROVED AND ANOTHER
COMMISSIONER WE INTERVIEWED
HIM.
SO IT'S I GUESS THAT GOES
THROUGH THE FIRST AND SECOND
READING AND IT TAKES A TAKES A
MAN CAN TELL THAT PERSON THAT
THAT'S WHAT EVERY NEW PERSON
YOU KNOW.
>> DO YOU REMEMBER IF HE HAD
ANY KIND OF I KNOW HE'S A
WRITER.
OH, HE'S AN ATTORNEY.
YEAH.
>> I THINK WE NEED TO HAVE A
YOUNG PERSON.
>> I THINK WE HAVE A YOUNG
PERSON.
WELL THERE WAS MY I WOULD ALSO
SUGGEST TO RESTRUCTURE OUR
SUBCOMMITTEES I MEAN AND I'M
DOING IT TODAY.
I ABSOLUTELY WELL WE COULD LOOK
AT OK FINE OK THERE'S LEWIS I'M
GOING WITH WITH WITH YOU.
YEAH OK ALL RIGHT GOOD THANK
YOU.
I KNOW IT'S A WORK YOU WORKED
OUT JUST THE WAY I WAS HOPING
ARE WE ARE WE ARE WE PUTTING
THAT UNDER THE OUTREACH
COMMITTEE.
YES.
OK ALL RIGHT VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
AND AND WHILE WE'RE ON THE
SUBJECT I HAVE YOUR COMMITTEE
ASSIGNMENTS FOR THIS PROGRAM
YEAR AND I'M GOING TO ASK
COMMISSIONER AND COMMISSIONER
MILGRIM TO CONTINUE ON THE
POLICY COMMITTEE.
THEY ARE TRYING TO REVIEW ALL
OF THE POLICIES AND SEEING IF
WE HAVE ANY COMMENTS,
REVISIONS, ANYTHING.
AND SPEAKING OF POLICIES, I
HAVE SPOKEN WITH CHIEF ABOUT
OUR SERIOUS INCIDENT POLICY
THAT YOU MAY REMEMBER THAT WE
HAD PROPOSED A POLICY WHEREBY
WHEN A SERIOUS INCIDENT HAPPENS
AND IN SUCH INCIDENTS ARE
LISTED IN THE IN THE PROPOSAL
THAT THE CHAIR WOULD BE
NOTIFIED OF IT SORT OF WE DON'T
WANT TO READ ABOUT IT IN THE
ANN ARBOR NEWS KNOW THAT WE
SHOULD KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON AND
PEOPLE MAY CALL US ABOUT TWO
WEEKS AGO THERE WAS A SHOOTING
UP ON PACARD AND SOMEBODY, YOU
KNOW, CONTACTED ME, YOU KNOW,
WILL WE CONTACT I SAID NO, THAT
WASN'T A POLICE INVOLVED
SHOOTING.
SO EVEN UNDER OUR POLICY THAT
WOULD NOT YOU KNOW BUT BUT SO
CHIEF IS CONSIDERING I KNOW
THAT THEY ARE ISSUES IN TERMS
OF IF THERE IS SOME KIND
OF SERIOUS INCIDENT INVOLVING A
POLICE OFFICER.
CERTAIN PEOPLE HAVE TO BE
CALLED AND WE JUST KIND OF WANT
TO BE IN THAT NUMBER.
SO THAT'S STILL BEING
CONSIDERED.
>> SO THAT'S A POLICY COMMITTEE
IN TERMS OF INFORMATION
MANAGERS.
VICE CHAIRMAN, I WOULD LIKE TO
APPOINT YOU AGAIN REAPPOINTED
AS CHAIR OF THAT COMMITTEE
SUBCOMMITTEE COMMISSIONER
GREEN
AS COMMISSIONER COOPER AND
MYSELF AND I WANT TO LEAVE A
VACANCY BECAUSE I THINK WE'VE
GOT SOMEONE COMING ON WHO WILL
WHO WILL FILL THAT THAT SEAT NO
MORE.
>> OK, SO THAT IS FOR THIS
PROGRAM.
YEA THAT'S HOW WE'RE GOING TO
IF THAT'S ALL RIGHT WITH I
THINK THAT'S FINE ALSO WHAT WE
CAN DO IS WE CAN HAVE OUR
SUBCOMMITTEE ORIENTATION FOR
MEMBERS WHO MIGHT NOT KNOW THE
PROCEDURES TO HOW TO REVIEW
WHAT TO DO IN CASE WE HAVE THE
FINAL DECISION ON THE PART
OF APD HOW WE CAN WORK OUT OUR
REPORT'S RECOMMENDATIONS ETC.
WE CAN WORK TOGETHER.
WE CAN MAKE IT REALLY EASY FOR
COMMISSIONERS IF THEY DON'T
WANT TO GO THROUGH THE ALL THE
FORMS JUST SEND ME THE DECISION
RECOMMENDATIONS AND I CAN
GENERATE REPORTS FOR THEM BUT
WOULD BE NICE IF THEY CAN GO
THROUGH THE PROCESS OF KNOWING
WHERE TO GO, WHICH WHICH FORM
TO GO AND BECAUSE YOU KNOW AT
ONE POINT WILL NOT BE HERE.
THERE WILL BE THE ONES WHO ARE
GOING TO BE IN CHARGE AND IF
YOU HAVE THE EXPERIENCE WITH
ALL THE FORMS I THINK THAT
WOULD MAKE IT A BIT EASIER AS A
TRANSITION.
>> VERY GOOD.
VERY GOOD AND WELCOME.
COMMISSIONER HAYNES.
>> THANK YOU.
TERRIBLE WEATHER.
WE'RE JUST THANK GOD
EVERYBODY'S MAKING IT IN.
>> SO AT THIS POINT WE DO HAVE
A QUALITY SCHOOL SO IF YOU
WOULD I'D ASK FOR A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA OF THE
SECOND THE SECOND ALL IN FAVOR
ANY MORE POST AND I'D LIKE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
MINUTES FROM SEPTEMBER'S
MEETING SO MOVED SECOND SECOND
ALL IN FAVOR NO OPPOSED.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, MR. HAYNES.
WE'RE JUST SORT OF TALKING
THROUGH SOME THINGS SINCE WE
REALLY COULDN'T VOTE TRYING TO
GET OUR COMMITTEES STRAIGHT AND
I KNOW THAT YOU WERE WORKING ON
THE TRAINING COMMITTEE AND I'D
I'D LIKE US TO DISCUSS AND I
CAN'T I WANT TO GET US OUT
OF HERE TODAY BECAUSE I KNOW
THE BAD WEATHER'S COMING BACK
BUT WHAT WHAT DO YOU HAVE ANY
IDEAS FLOATING AROUND THAT WE
CAN TRAINING FOR US AND OR
TRAINING FOR THE COMMUNITY?
I DON'T KNOW IF WE CAN OFFER
THE COMMUNITY THE SAME KIND
OF TRAINING WE DID WITH THE
POLICE IS THAT A POSSIBILITY OR
SOME SEMBLANCE OF THEIR
.
>> GOOD EVENING, EVERYBODY
GETTING ON THIS I'M SORRY I
BROUGHT UP AT THE LAST MEETING
BRIEFLY AT THAT POINT WE HAD
ACTING COMMANDER NOBLE STAFF
HERE.
YEAH, I THINK THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT WE WERE GOING TO LOOK AT
EXPLORING.
OBVIOUSLY WE DON'T WANT TO
REPEAT THE SAME TRAINING THAT
WE DID TO THE T WITH YOU GUYS.
BUT YEAH, I THINK THE MORE WE
GET WITH HIM AND THE MORE WE
KIND OF SEE WHAT KIND OF IDEAS
YOU ALL MIGHT HAVE MAYBE THE
COMMUNITY INPUT TO SEE WHAT
THEY MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN AS
WELL, THEN WE CAN KIND
OF BRAINSTORM FROM THERE.
>> BUT THAT'S DEFINITELY
SOMETHING THAT WOULDN'T BE OFF
THE TABLE NECESSARILY.
OK, I REMEMBER A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO THAT I WAS ABLE TO
RIDE ALONG.
IS THAT SOMETHING ELSE THAT
COULD BE DONE?
>> WHAT NO KENNEDY IS RIDING
DOWN RIDE ALONG AS YOU WERE
SAYING AND THE LAST CHANCE
PARENTS MEETING AND IT CAME UP
POSSIBLY FOR THE COMMISSION
COMMISSIONERS TO PARTICIPATE.
YES, RIGHT ALONG WITH POLICE
OFFICERS.
YES.
THAT'S PASSED.
THAT WAS VERY HELPFUL FOR ME.
ANYONE CAN DO A WELL.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
OK, SO IF ANYBODY'S INTERESTED
IN DOING A RIDE ALONG I NEED
YOU TO EMAIL ME.
>> I'D LIKE TO DO THAT AGAIN.
>> I'LL SAY FOR THE COMMISSION
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO A RIDE
ALONG WITH A PETTY OFFICER I
NEED YOUR INFORMATION AND I
NEED YOU TO EMAIL ME TO LET ME
KNOW WHEN YOU'RE AVAILABLE TO
DO SO.
>> YOU ALL DON'T HAVE TO GO AT
THE SAME TIME BUT WE HAVE TO
WORK OFF OF THEIR OFFICERS
AVAILABILITY AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
WE LAST YEAR WE HAD OUR WE
CALLED OUR INITIAL INAUGURAL
SYMPOSIUM AND IT WAS A JEWED
WALTON MEMORIAL SYMPOSIUM.
>> I HAD MENTIONED THAT YOU
KNOW, ONE OF THE THE FOUNDING
ONE OF THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO GOT THIS COMMISSION RUNNING
WAS SHIRLEY BECKLEY AND SHIRLEY
DIED A FEW MONTHS AGO AND
THOUGHT IT MIGHT BE NICE TO
HAVE SOMETHING AS WELL NAMED IN
HER HONOR.
SO I DON'T KNOW FIRST OF ALL,
WHAT MONTH WAS THE SYMPOSIUM
MAY SO WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT
A SECOND SYMPOSIUM?
LET'S START THERE.
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT A
SECOND SYMPOSIUM?
I THINK IT WOULD BE A GOOD IDEA
BUT DEFINING IT HOW WHAT WHAT
WOULD BE OUR TOPIC SO WE DON'T
HMM.
AND I'M JUST WONDERING I KNOW I
DON'T WANT TO PUT IT THIS FAR
BUT I KNOW CHIEF ANDERSON AS
HIS PRESENTATION ON FERGUSON
HAVE YOU ALL SEEN WE'VE SEEN
SOME THINGS I DON'T KNOW IF
IT'LL BE THE SAME.
YEAH, I KNOW HE HAS FROM HIS
TIME IN FERGUSON AND HE HAS A
PRESENTATION ALREADY PREPARED.
BUT WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO I'M
GOING TO CALL FOR A VOTE.
HOW MANY OF YOU THINK WE SHOULD
AT LEAST TRY TO HAVE A SECOND
SYMPOSIUM IN THE SPRING?
YOU KNOW, MAY, APRIL, WHATEVER
IN TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
I THINK THAT'S A GOOD IDEA AND
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
KEEP THIS GOING BECAUSE THAT
WOULD REALLY HELP US ADDRESS
THE COMMUNITY NEEDS AND ALSO
THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
WHO WERE INSTRUMENTAL IN THE
THE EXISTENCE OF OUR COMMISSION
AND I BELIEVE THAT PROBABLY AS
AS A THEME I WOULD IMAGINE THAT
THE COMMISSIONERS ARE GOING TO
GO TO NICOLE PROBABLY MIGHT
COME BACK WITH SOME KIND
OF IDEA BECAUSE IT WOULD BE SO
MANY TOPICS BEING DISCUSSED
OVER THERE AND SEE WHICH ONES
THAT MIGHT FIT OUR NEEDS OVER
HERE AND JUST BUILD ON THAT
TELERATE TO OUR NEEDS OVER
HERE.
>> WELL, THAT MAKES SENSE.
THAT MAKES SENSE.
AND ANY OTHER INPUT SUPPORT
SUPPORT?
YEAH, I AGREE.
I THINK YOU KNOW, JUST GOT THIS
STARTED AND YOU KNOW, SHE'S A
MEMBER WHO I THINK WE'RE REALLY
GOING TO MISS UNFORTUNATELY
HAVING LEFT BUT AND YOU KNOW, I
THINK I THINK WE HAVE TO PICK
UP THE BALL WHICH SHE STARTED
ON HERE OK, IT'LL TAKE ALL
OF US PROBABLY YEAH.
AND IT SEEMS TO ME THAT AT THAT
I MEAN ONE THING WE MIGHT DO IS
HAVE SOME SORT OF I DON'T KNOW
THE WOMAN THAT YOU'RE SPEAKING
OF FRANKLY BUT WE SHOULD HAVE
SHIRLEY.
SO WE SHOULD HAVE A SECTION
WHERE WE WHERE SOMEBODY PAYS
TRIBUTE, WE PAY TRIBUTE TO HER
IN SOME WAY AND THEN ALSO HAVE
A PROGRAM TIME FOR QUESTION AND
ANSWER.
I KNOW THE CHIEF IS PRESENTING
THIS FERGUSON HIS PRESENTATION
ON FERGUSON IN NOVEMBER BUT BUT
IT'S I MEAN THAT SOUNDS LIKE
SOMETHING THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
WOULD BE QUITE INTERESTED.
I THINK THEY'D BE VERY
INTERESTED IN THAT.
>> BUT I LIKE I DO LIKE
COMMISSIONER OF IDEA ABOUT YOU
KNOW, THE FOLKS FROM WHO ARE
GOING TO CALL SHOULD BE THERE,
YOU KNOW, DOING ALL THE STUFF
AND ALSO THINKING ABOUT WHAT
WHAT MIGHT BE A TOPIC FOR THIS
MAYBE A SPEAKER.
RIGHT.
SO I'D BE REALLY INTERESTED IN
SOMEBODY WHO SPEAKS THEIR MIND
COME AND SPEAK FRENCH WITH US.
>> OK, GOOD IDEAS.
GOOD IDEAS.
>> OK, SO DO WE NEED A BONE OR
WE'RE JUST IN THE DISCUSSION
STAGES AT THIS TIME BUT WE SORT
ARE GOING TO MOVE AHEAD WITH
WITH PLANNING FOR THE SPRING
SYMPOSIUM.
YES.
>> YES YES.
DOES ANYONE HAVE A PROBLEM WITH
A NAME CHANGE LAST TIME IT WAS
THE JUD WALDEN WALTON MEMORIAL
AND I WOULD PROPOSE TO JUDE
WALTON SHIRLEY BECKLEY MEMORIAL
SIMPLES I THINK SO I THINK
SHIRLEY WAS A VERY IMPORTANT
PERSON IN OUR COMMUNITY THAT
HER PUSHING AND HER EMPHASIS ON
COMMUNITY POLICE RELATIONSHIPS
AND THE THINGS THAT WENT ON
THAT HAVE TRANSPIRED IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SHE WAS ONE OF THE VOICES THAT
MADE US POSSIBLE SO DOING
SOMETHING IN HER HONOR AND
REALLY TALKING ABOUT WHO SHE
WAS AND WHAT SHE DID WITHIN THE
COMMUNITY I THINK WOULD BE VERY
IMPORTANT.
GOOD.
OK, SO I'VE NOT THE GO AHEAD
RANDY.
>> WELL I WOULD I WOULD LIKE TO
MOVE THAT WE CHANGE THE NAME
OF THE ANNUAL SYMPOSIUM TO THE
WAY CHAIR CARTER JUST DESCRIBED
IT.
>> THAT WOULD BE THE JUD WALTON
SHIRLEY BECKLEY MEMORIAL
SYMPOSIUM.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, THAT'S A MOTION.
IS THERE A SECOND I SECOND ANY
MORE DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR BY
ANY OPPOSED MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU OR SO WE'LL START
THINKING AND WORKING AND
WORKING ON THAT AND THINKING
ABOUT WE DON'T HAVE A CHAIR FOR
THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE SO
EVERYBODY THINK ABOUT HOW WE
CAN WORK TOGETHER TO GET THIS
THING GOING.
OK, THANK YOU.
YOUR CHAIR.
NO NO YOU'RE OH YEAH YEAH.
OH BUT THE REASON THE REASON
THAT WE MOVED THE FERGUSON
PRESENTATION FROM NOVEMBER IS
BECAUSE ON THE 9TH WHICH IS
SUNDAY THE 9TH OF NOVEMBER AT
THE MICHIGAN THEATER AT 2:00 IS
GOING TO BE A SHOWING OF A FILM
ENTITLED A RIPPLE IN ANN ARBOR
WHICH TALKS ABOUT BEING A DNA.
I'M TRYING TO REMEMBER IF THIS
WAS IN THE NINETIES WHAT WAS IN
THE 90S?
>> IN THE 90S, YEAH.
WHEN WE THERE WAS SOME ISSUES
WITH REGARD TO PEOPLE BEING
FORCED TO OR COERCED TO GIVE
THEIR DNA IN SEARCH
OF CRIMINAL.
SO IT'S VERY INTERESTING.
I ENCOURAGE ALL COMMISSIONERS
TO GO IN ANYONE ELSE THAT'S
THAT'S WATCHING.
IT'S GOING TO BE FREE TO APPLY
MICHIGAN THEATER SUNDAY THE 9TH
OF NOVEMBER.
BUT SO WE THOUGHT THAT THAT WAS
KIND OF CLOSE BECAUSE A LOT
OF PEOPLE WOULD BE COMING OUT
FOR THAT WAS THE THOUGHT.
SO WE'LL GET A NEW DATE FOR
THAT.
I THINK
THAT THAT'S ALL THAT I
HAVE SOME OF US ARE GOING TO
NACOLE FOR THE FOUR DAYS NEXT
WEEK.
I THINK THE FOUR COMMISSIONERS
GOING AND WE WILL BRING BACK
OUR WHAT INFORMATION WE CAN I
DON'T THINK I NEED A MOTION FOR
THE COMMITTEE ASSIGNMENTS.
OK, OK OK ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
THAT IS ALL THAT I HAVE TO MOVE
RIGHT ALONG NEXT WE HAVE OLD
BUSINESS AT THIS TIME WE DO NOT
HAVE ANY OLD BUSINESS ON OUR
AGENDA COMMISSIONERS' IS THERE
ANY OLD BUSINESS FOR A
COMMISSION TODAY SEEING NONE WE
HAVE NOT OLD BUSINESS NEXT WE
HAVE NEW BUSINESS
COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY NEW BUSINESS
TODAY?
>> WE HAVE NONE ON OUR AGENDA
HERE IN THE HUSHED TONES.
>> NO NO BUSINESS, NO I'M SORRY
I DO HAVE NEW BUSINESS.
WE HAVE BECAUSE IT JUST
OCCURRED TO ME YOU KNOW WE HAVE
WE HAVE GOTTEN GOOD REVIEWS ON
OUR LAST TWO ANNUAL REPORTS.
THEY LOOKED REALLY GOOD AND IT
IS COMING TO THE END OF TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE AND WE WILL WE WILL
BE GENERATING AN ANNUAL REPORT
FOR TWENTY TWENTY FIVE IF
THERE'S ANYTHING THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO BE INCLUDED IN THAT
REPORT PLEASE START THINKING
ABOUT IT AND GETTING IT
TOGETHER.
MR. CUMMINS DOES A GREAT JOB ON
OUR VISUALS AND WE'RE GOING TO
DEPEND ON HER AGAIN TO DO THOSE
PIE CHARTS AND THE VARIOUS
CHARTS.
BUT LET'S START THINKING ABOUT
OUR ANNUAL REPORT FOR TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE.
IT'S FUNNY HOW THE YEAR IS
MOVING RIGHT ALONG.
WHAT I THINK OK OUR REPORT FROM
COMMITTEES I KNOW THE POLICY
COMMITTEE I MENTIONED
PREVIOUSLY.
YEAH I CAN JUST I MEAN BE A
LITTLE MORE SPECIFIC.
THE CURRENT PLAN IS FOR
COMMISSIONER LEWENI TO CONTINUE
TO WORK ON OUR POLICIES, REVIEW
GET A REPORT INTO A CONDITION
SUCH THAT WE'RE ABLE TO
DISTRIBUTE PERHAPS ALONG WITH A
BRIEF SUMMARY TO ALL THE
COMMISSIONERS AT LEAST ONE WEEK
PRIOR TO THE NOVEMBER MEETING.
WOULD THAT BE GREAT?
SO YOU KNOW, THE HOPE IS THAT
COMMISSIONERS WILL REVIEW THE
REPORT AND THEN IDEALLY MAYBE
EMAIL US WITH ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS THAT THEY MAY HAVE SO
THAT WE COULD BE IN A BETTER
POSITION TO ADDRESS THEM AT THE
MEETING OR YOU KNOW, BOARD COME
WITH WITH QUESTIONS WHICH WOULD
BE FINE AS WELL.
WE CAN JUST AND WE CAN JUST YOU
KNOW, RATHER THAN GOING THROUGH
I THINK THERE'S ABOUT A HUNDRED
FORTY POLICIES WHICH IS ABOUT
HALF THAT WE WILL REVIEW BY
THEN.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE NOT GOING TO GO
THROUGH THEM ALL SO WE'LL JUST
TRY TO HIGHLIGHT SOME OF THE
THINGS AND GO THROUGH WITH
WHATEVER QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
IT MIGHT BE.
THERE'S ALSO THERE'S A LINK
THAT I WAS THINKING THAT
THERE'S A LINK TO ALL THE
POLICIES THAT ARE ONLINE AND I
THOUGHT WE HAVE A BRIEF DRAFT
SUMMARY PREPARED ALREADY AND I
JUST ADDED THE LINK THERE.
BUT IF EVERYBODY DOES WANT THE
LINK BEFORE YOU GET THE REST
OF THE MATERIALS FROM US, JUST
LET ME KNOW AND I CAN PROVIDE
IT FOR YOU IF YOU IN CASE YOU
DO WANT TO FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF
WITH WITH THE POLICIES.
OK, BEFORE BEFORE NEXT MONTH.
THANK YOU.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT POLICY COMMITTEE IS DOING
TRAINING COMMITTEE WE SORT
OF CHATTED ABOUT OUTREACH
COMMITTEE.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT PLANNING
COMMITTEE COMMISSIONER COOPER.
I DID NOT MAKE A MEETING BUT I
KNOW THERE WAS ONE YOU KNOW THE
MEETING THE MEETING ACTUALLY
KIND OF FELL APART.
>> THE MEETING KIND OF FELL
APART AND WE JUST COULDN'T GET
IT TOGETHER FOR THAT DATE.
OK, NO REPORT WHAT WAS OK THAT
SOUNDS GOOD.
THAT SOUNDS GOOD.
INFORMAL TO MANAGERS.
>> YES.
SO FAR WE HAVE TWENTY EIGHT
COMPLAINTS.
WE HAD A TRANSPARENCY MEETING
WITH APD THIS PAST WEEK AND WE
REVIEWED THREE COMPLAINTS.
ONE OF THEM IS ALREADY FINISHED
BY ME AND ONE IS IN THE HANDS
OF COMMISSIONER GREEN.
TWO WILL BE REVIEWED THIS WEEK
BY ME AND THE TWENTY EIGHTH
COMPLAINT AS WE JUST RECEIVED
IT TODAY AND WE'LL PASS IT TO
APD WHEN THEY ARE DONE WITH
THEIR INVESTIGATION AND WE WILL
WORK ON THAT AND I JUST WOULD
LIKE TO THANK HE AND HIS GROUP
FOR THEIR CANDID AND OPEN
MEETINGS AND REALLY SHOW US
UNREDACTED VIDEOS OF THOSE
COMPLAINTS THAT WOULD GIVE US
REALLY UNBIASED VISION OR A WAY
OF WHEN WE WRITE OUR REPORTS
AND OUR FINDINGS.
I THINK IT'S STILL A WORK IN
PROGRESS AND THE WAY PROBABLY
THE POLICE INVESTIGATES THE
COMPLAINTS WAS NO DIFFERENT
THAN WHEN WE SEE THINGS BECAUSE
THE POLICE THE FOCUS ON
POLICIES IF THERE ARE ANY KIND
DEVIATIONS FROM APPLYING
POLICIES AND WE LOOK AT OTHER
THINGS TOO BESIDES THE POLICIES
IS IF THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS
THAT WE CAN PICK UP THE
LANGUAGE THE WAY OFFICERS ARE
INTERACTING WITH THE COMMUNITY
OF SOME TERMS THAT ARE BEING
USED ALL THAT IS VERY IMPORTANT
FOR US TO BE UNBIASED JUDGES TO
THESE COMPLAINTS IN I THINK
IT'S JUST A MATTER OF OF MANY
OF THE COMPLAINTS OFFICERS
ADHERE TO ALREADY EXISTING
POLICIES AND I KNOW SOMETIMES
WHEN THEY HAVE NEW OFFICERS
THEY MIGHT NOT KNOW ALL THE
POLICIES BUT IT'S A PART
OF THEIR TRAINING AND I DON'T
THINK WE NEED TO LIKE RAISE THE
FLAG RED FLAGS ABOUT SOME
OF THESE ISSUES BECAUSE WE CAN
RECOMMEND INCREASING THE
TRAINING THAT ALL THE OFFICERS
BECOME AWARE OF OF THOSE
POLICIES AND WHEN THEY ARE
INTERACTING WITH THE COMMUNITY
OR ANY OF THE INDIVIDUALS THEY
HAVE THAT IN MIND.
SO THAT WOULD PROBABLY REDUCE
THE KIND OF HARD FEELINGS
WITHIN THE COMMUNITY AND THE
POLICE SO WE CAN BE AND LOOK
OUT FOR SOME OF THOSE AND WE
CAN POINT THEM OUT TO APD TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE THESE ARE
THE POLICIES THAT WE HAVE AND
THEY NEED TO ABIDE BY THOSE
POLICIES.
SO THIS IS WHERE WE ARE RIGHT
NOW.
BUT GREATLY WE APPRECIATE THE
THE FRANK AND CANDID
INTERACTIONS WITH SOCIAL WITH
MATURITY AND SERGEANT KING AND
THE REST OF THE GROUP.
>> YEAH, NO I I VERY MUCH
AGREE.
THERE'S YOU KNOW, WE HAD THE
ISSUE OF HOW MUCH INFORMATION,
YOU KNOW, CAN WE RECEIVE AND
WITH THE TRANSPARENCY MEETINGS
WE WE PRETTY MUCH GET IT ALL
AND IT'S A WAY TO DEAL WITH THE
ISSUE OF THINGS NOT BEING
PUBLIC BUT STILL ALLOWING IT TO
TAKE I'M GLAD YOU DIDN'T LISTEN
TO ME.
YOU WERE YOU WERE RELENTLESS IN
YOUR POSITION.
>> WELL, THAT DIDN'T MAKE ME
WANT CAME.
BUT WHAT IS BUT WHETHER RIGHT
OR WRONG YOU GOT IT DONE OK.
ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
NO, NO.
BEFORE I GET THERE WHEN I WAS
LEAVING THE COUNCIL MEETING A
WEEK OR SO AGO THEY WERE VOTING
OR THEY WERE ABOUT TO VOTE.
I'VE CAUGHT THE TAIL END AND WE
WALKED BACK IN TO TRY AND
LISTEN.
IS THERE SOMETHING COMING DOWN
ABOUT FUNDING FOR THIS FOR A
NEW INFORMATION SYSTEM?
DENHA AND I DON'T WANT TO PUT
YOU ON THE SPOT IF YOU IF
YOU'RE NOT AWARE JUST IT'S OK
OF THAT.
OK, REFERENCE THE WORKERS
MANAGEMENT I THINK IT WAS PART
OF THE RECORDS MANAGEMENT THING
IS THAT SOMETHING FAMILIAR WAS
THIS WAS REPORTED IN NY I THINK
YES.
>> IT WAS OK LET'S TALK ABOUT
IT I I DIDN'T GET A CHANCE TO
LOOK AT MY MY WIFE MENTIONED IT
TO ME.
DID YOU KNOW ARE YOU AWARE
OF SOMETHING THAT WAS JUST
PUBLISHED ONLINE ABOUT
TRANSPARENCY, A NEW
TRANSPARENCY DATA.
>> YEAH DATA SHARING TRAUGOTT
YEAH I MEAN THAT YEAH
.
GOOD EVENING.
YES.
SO I THINK YOU'RE REFERRING TO
THE ARTICLES ABOUT A NEW LIKE
CRIME STATISTIC TRANSPARENCY
DASHBOARD THAT THE DEPARTMENT
HAS PUT OUT.
IT IS LIVE AND ACTIVE NOW I
BELIEVE YOU CAN ACCESS IT
THROUGH THE CITY'S WEBSITE.
I DON'T HAVE THE EXACT WEB
ADDRESS OFFHAND BUT IT IS
AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC.
IF YOU GO ON THROUGH THE CITY'S
WEBSITE YOU CAN NAVIGATE TO IT
.
IT HAS CRIME STATISTICS ON IT.
THERE ARE IT'S SEPARATED BY
CITY WIDE THE DOWNTOWN AREA AND
THEN IT'S SEPARATED BY WARD AS
WELL.
SO YOU CAN REALLY GET A GOOD
PICTURE OF WHAT STATISTICS THAT
WE DO HAVE AND ARE AVAILABLE TO
BE VIEWED TAKING THIS QUESTION
OFF.
ABSOLUTELY.
YOU KNOW HOW TO USE ME UP TO
DATE IT IS I BELIEVE AS OF NOW
THE STATISTICS ARE UPDATED
MONTHLY SO I'M NOT SURE WHAT
EXACT DATE THAT HAPPENS ON BUT
AND THEN IT'LL BE SO RIGHT AND
I THINK IT'S THE TWENTY FOUR
AND TWENTY FIVE STATS SO YOU
CAN SEE THE COMPARISON TO
INCREASES OR DECREASES IN
DIFFERENT AREAS YEAR TO DATE
COMPARISONS.
OK GOOD.
WELL THANK YOU.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
YOU KNOW THE OTHER THING THAT
IS THE DEPARTMENT IS WORKING ON
IS ACQUIRING NEW RECORDS
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS BECAUSE THE
CURRENT SYSTEM THAT THEY ARE
USING IS PROBABLY OUTDATED AND
IT'S NOT AS FLEXIBLE AND YOU
CANNOT RETRIEVE YOU CANNOT DO
REALLY GOOD ANALYSIS ON ON THE
KLEMENS AND THE DATA THAT IS
REALLY GENERATING AND WHAT THE
NEW ONES HOPEFULLY I THINK IS
PROBABLY BEING FORWARDED.
I NOT SURE WHERE IT STANDS NOW
FORWARDED TO CITY COUNCIL TO
VOTE ON THAT.
I BELIEVE THAT THEY HAVE
NARROWED THEIR SELECTION TO TWO
OF THE FOUR AND I HAD THE
CHANCE TO SIT ON TWO OF THOSE
PRESENTATIONS FOR WINDERS AND
THE OTHER TWO I WAS NOT ABLE
BUT I SERGEANT THEY HAD SENT ME
THE LINKS TO THEIR
PRESENTATIONS AND THE WRITTEN
MATERIALS THAT THEY HAVE AND I
GAVE THEM MY TWO CENTS OF JUST
BASED ON MY ATTENDANCE AND ALSO
OBSERVATIONS.
>> YOU HAD A RECOMMENDATION?
I HAD HAD SOME RECOMMENDATIONS
OF WHICH SYSTEM THEY CAN
ACQUIRE AND I THINK IT
BASICALLY IS A SYSTEM THAT IS
EASY TO USE.
IT HAS THE SUPPORT AND ALSO
WOULD BE ABLE TO INCORPORATE
SOME OF THE OLD DATA FROM
PREVIOUS RECORDS INTO THE THE
NEW SYSTEM.
AND WITH THAT ANALYSIS THERE
WOULD BE ACCORDING TO THE
VENDOR STATISTICS CAN BE DONE
ON CERTAIN ITEMS, NOT
EVERYTHING THAT IS GOING TO BE
IN THE RECORDS CONTRIBUTION TO
THE PUBLIC.
THERE ARE CERTAIN THINGS THAT
CAN BE SHOWN AND THAT ALSO IS
PART OF THE TRANSPARENCY AND IF
WE WANT TO LOOK AT A STOP AND
LOOK TO STOP WHAT HAS HAPPENED
TO THE STOP WHERE IT HAPPENED
AT WHAT TIME OF THE DAY, WHAT
DAY OF THE WEEK LOCATION THE
HOUR OF THE GENDER, THE AGE THE
IF WE CAN IDENTIFY THE
ETHNICITY OF THE PERSON WHAT
WAS GIVEN A VIOLATION OF SPEED
WAS THE SEARCH WAS GIVEN A
TICKET WARNING ARREST
CONFISCATE IMPOUNDING BECAUSE
THE CURRENT SYSTEM DOES NOT
GIVE YOU ALL THOSE OPTIONS.
BUT IF YOU WANT TO LOOK AT ONE
PARTICULAR ITEM OF SAY THE STOP
YOU CAN DO ANALYSIS THAT GIVEN
THE NEW SYSTEM THAT THE APD IS
LOOKING INTO VERY GOOD.
YOU KNOW THAT I KNOW
COMMISSIONER OUR FRIEND HAD
MENTIONED SOMETHING I HAD NEVER
BEEN AWARE OF WHEN OFFICER YOU
KNOW, IF WE'RE TRYING TO KEEP
STATISTICS AND WE WANT TO
IDENTIFY PEOPLE BY RACE AND IT
WASN'T ME MENA MIDDLE EASTERN.
>> NORTH AFRICAN.
YES.
THAT'S ANOTHER CATEGORY THE
CATEGORY THAT HAS BEEN
RECOGNIZED BY THE CENSUS U.S.
CENSUS.
>> SO ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
WELL THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MIGHT BE I WANT TO THANK
COMMISSIONER GREENE HAS COME IN
I WANT TO THANK YOU.
WE KNOW THAT THE WEATHER HAS
KEPT A LOT OF US OF LATE AND
WE'RE GOING TO LET YOU GO EARLY
BECAUSE THE WEATHER IS COMING
BACK.
I THINK WE DON'T HAVE OUR
COUNCIL LIAISONS HERE SO
THERE'LL BE NO REPORT.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE ANYONE
NEEDS TO CONTRIBUTE TO
TONIGHT'S MEETING?
>> HMM.
GOOD FOR YOU ALL LEAVE I JUST
HAVE A COUPLE OF ANNOUNCEMENT.
SO AT THE END OF THE MEETING IF
YOU COULD JUST STAY PUT FOR A
SECOND THAT BE GREAT.
OK, SO WE CAN GO AHEAD.
I JUST WISH THOSE OF US WHO ARE
TRAVELING SAFE TRAVEL GOBLIN'S
AND WE WILL BE BACK AT NEXT
MONTH.
ALL RIGHT.
IS THERE A MOTION TO ADJOURN?
I SHALL SECOND SECOND ANY
DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR?
I THANK YOU.
GO HOME SAFELY.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK, ANNOUNCEMENTS